*Ladies of the seasons

Animation created by CSC-10026 student #21029058.

*Fulfillment of the coursework requirement

?Keele theme
Ladies of the Seasons as they are pictured on Chancellors building
Background image of Keele Hall
Images of squirrels
Colours from the Keele Crest

?Interaction
An interactive sketch with instructions on how to use it

?Note
Credits can be paused by moving the mouse upwards, and playing is resumed upon
clicking the right-hand bottom corner. Textfile of credits is stored in the data folder.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

*Media

?Images of the Ladies of the Seasons
Original tile art can be found on the wall just outside the main entrance
to Chancellor's building. Artist unknown. Photographs taken on mobile 
phone, by yours truly. Cropped and resized using GIMP and Processing.

?Images of squirrel
Photohraph taken by user pcharnyphoto on Pixabay. Public Domain. 
Cropped and resized using GIMP, flipped using Processing.

?Background image
Image of Keele Hall by student #21029058.
Resized and oil canvas filter added using GIMP.

?Images of birds
Photographs taken by users analogicus, 3493568, and mabel amber on Pixabay.
Public Domain. Cropped, resized, backgrounds made transparent using GIMP.

Each image is its own .png image file, which is accessed using PImage class.

Image files: spring, summer, autumn, winter, squirrel, bg, bird0, bird1, bird2

?Text files
User information, springtime fortunes, summertime weather forecasts and credits 
are accessed from text files. Different fonts are used for headings and plaintext.
Text files stored in .txt format, printed on screen using reader/parse or string loader.

Text files: info, fortunes, forecasts, cred

?Fonts used
Plaintext: Roboto
Credit headers: The Beautiful Night by Attract Studio
Credit subheaders: Cafe Matcha by Subectype & Orenari
Header fonts downloaded from DaFont, for personal use only.


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

*Sound

?Background music
Sedative by Lesfm on Pixabay. Public Domain. 

Background music compressed and cut using Audacity. Same music plays on the 
background in all scenes without interruption or overlap, and loops as seamlessly as possible.

Sound files: chill.mp3

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

*Animation

A sketch in six scenes. Each scene has a different function related to the season.

?Introduction and welcome page
Setting up the outline of the sketch. Display size, loading of files, introduction 
of global variables, placing season buttons at the bottom of the sketch, parsing 
and displaying user manual, methods that are accessed from multiple scenes. 
Such methods include the recursive, fractal cherry tree, the background canvas 
for text, and tracking mouse movement and clicks for moving between scenes.

?Spring
Lady Spring blesses the user with a random good fortune from a text file. 
Canvas size and its location on screen is determined. Fractal cherry tree 
is in blossom with random red and white flowers, and all the shades in between.

?Summer
Lady Summer showers the user with a random, humorous weather forecast from a 
text file. Canvas size and location on screen is determined. Fractal cherry 
tree is in full foliage with random shades of green.

?Autumn
Lady Autumn sees the birds fly away as winter draws nearer, with the cherry tree
rustling in the cold wind. Fractal cherry tree is in autumn foliage with fewer leaves 
than in summertime. Shades of the leaves vary between random  yellows, oranges, 
and browns. Birds seem to fly further away from the viewer until they disappear 
altogether. Tree continues to sway in the wind with branches and foliage moving around.

?Winter
Lady Winter tells the current time of the system. Time is displayed on a binary clock 
and in plain text for those who don't quite master reading the binary clock yet. 
Fractal cherry tree is bare, which emphasises the random angles and use of bezier 
curves. Wind moves the tree, albeit at a slightly calmer pace than in autumn.

?Credits
Rolling credits start from the bottom of the screen and progress upwards. Animation 
of the credits can be stopped by moving the mouse, and continued by clicking the
right-hand bottom corner again. Different fonts are used for clarity and visual effect.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

*Programming

?Cherry tree
To avoid repetition as the cherry tree is shown in all seasons, the function is 
written once and called for with parametres from all seasons. Tree consists of two
functions: tree(String) and branch(float, string), and is found on the first tab.

Aspects used include fractals, recursion, simple maths, PushMatrix and PopMatrix, 
bezier curves, transforms (translate, rotate), graphical 2d primitive shapes 
(different weight strokes for trunk and branches, ellipses for leaves and blossoms).

When the tree trunk is first divided into two, the angle is changed to leaning more 
to the left using rotate. Rotate is also used on each branch in combination with 
random to create a more natural looking tree. Bezier curves are used in different 
amounts on left and right facing branches to give the tree even more randomness.

?Canvas for text
Canvas method is called from spring(), summer(), and winter(). Parametres include 
the location and size of the textbox, as well as a premeditated border colour in Keele 
theme. Textbox is always white. All colours are stored in an array. Rounded corners.

?Flying birds
Quite simple distancing from a selected point on the screen using an if-statement.

?Tracking movement
MouseClicked(), redraw(), loop(), noLoop(). Sketch is controlled by mouse clicks.

?Images
Individual image files in .png; PImage, loadImage(), 
flipping of imagery using rotate and Push/PopMatrix.

?Text
Individual text files in .txt; String[] for accessing individual lines in the files, 
loadStrings(), BufferedReader and createReader() for parsing a longer text (info.txt) 
onto screen; text(), textSize(), textAlign(), PFont, createFont(), textFont()

?Binary clock
Primitives, arrays, for-loops, if-statements. 2d primitive shapes in the form of a circle 
in two colours and no outline for showing the time, Keele colours for telling the time.

Function to get the time uses ternary operators and is heavily influenced by V. Lukashevics, 
https://github.com/vlukashevich/binary-clock-processing/blob/master/binary_clock.pde 
(last accessed 1.5.2022).

Time in plain text added for extra clarity and learning purposes.

?Libraries
The sketch uses processing.sound

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

Thank you for interacting! Press esc to exit the sketch.

May 2022, Keele University